addslashes -- Quote string with slashes

  string addslashes(string str)~

Returns a string with backslashes before characters that need to be quoted.
These characters are single quote ('), double quote ("), backslash (\) and NUL
(the &null; byte).

An example use of |addslashes| is when you're entering data into string that
is evaluated by PHP. For example, O'reilly is stored in $str, you need to
escape $str. (e.g. eval("echo '".addslashes($str)."';"); )

To escape database parameters, DBMS specific escape function (e.g.
|mysqli_real_escape_string| for MySQL or |pg_escape_literal|,
|pg_escape_string| for PostgreSQL) should be used for security reasons. DBMSes
have differect escape specification for identifiers (e.g. Table name, field
name) than parameters. Some DBMS such as PostgreSQL provides identifier escape
function, |pg_escape_indentifier|, but not all DBMS provides identifier escape
API. If this is the case, refer to your database system manual for proper
escaping method.

If your DBMS doesn't have an escape function and the DBMS uses \ to escape
special chars, you might be able to use this function only when this escape
method is adequate for your database. Please note that use of |addslashes| for
database parameter escaping can be cause of security issues on most databases.

The PHP directive magic_quotes_gpc was on by default before PHP 5.4, and it
essentially ran |addslashes| on all GET, POST, and COOKIE data. Do not use
|addslashes| on strings that have already been escaped with magic_quotes_gpc
as you'll then do double escaping. The function |get_magic_quotes_gpc| may
come in handy for checking this.

{str} The string to be escaped.

Returns the escaped string.

An |addslashes| example

<?php >
  $str = "Is your name O'reilly?";
  
  // Outputs: Is your name O\'reilly?
  echo addslashes($str);
?>





|stripcslashes| |stripslashes| |addcslashes| |htmlspecialchars| |quotemeta|
|get_magic_quotes_gpc|

vim:ft=help:
